Stardate 1435.1234
Dearest Diary,
    Things are ok. Interesting, but ok. Best news, Athryn is alive and well! Or, as well as any prisoner can be. Same by me, as it happens; the Suthiphin priestesses have been perfectly polite and accommodating, and we're allowed most any freedom other than the freedom to leave Akassil. The Data Mine is beautiful, ancient artifice integrated seamlessly with the flesh of Albira and every computer terminal carpeted in soothing soft moss. Vines and wires intermingle, and they're all designed to swing on which is the BEST example of workplace function fun I've ever experienced! Judging by the distant roars the Bearberry crop is maturing nicely, which must be a relief to the Ailia.
    I'm not certain where the political tensions between the Ailia and the Suthiphin landed, but the Ryddelmyst beaming out from the heart of Akassil has only increased since I returned from Megyle. Hopefully we won't have birdfolk charging in any time soon, but it seems inevitable at this point. In brighter and probably not unrelated news, Qyvnily is getting huge! Her giant cavern chamber can barely contain her and she lets me read in her branches as long as I agree to prune her leaves while I'm up there. She doesn't speak to me much, but when she does I can still see her bubbly warm manifestation from Megyle and it's always good to see that version of her is still in there someplace.
    Do I wish things had gone differently? Yes. Do I wish I'd found a way to talk the goddesses down from their weird murdery trial? Also yes. But, things are as they are. Speaking of, I've noticed some oddments since returning -- everybody I talk to seems to have a load time, for lack of a better description. The Suthiphin are one thing, since I don't know the ways of the serpentfolk very well yet and maybe the conversational pauses are a language barrier or a cultural thing. However, I know Athryn quite well and she was always a chatterbox! It was hard to get a word in between all she had to say about everything. Now she's quite quiet and when I engage her she's a bit stilted, like she has to think about who she is and who I am every time. Also, I could swear the other day when I burst into her room in a fit of enthusiasm over a new cybernetic species that appears to have organically adapted electronics into its body plan that she sort of phased into being from nowhere; she was wearing only a towel and she dropped it when I called her name, so the incongruity was driven from my mind immediately, but some small part of my brain managed to catalogue it for later consideration.
    Furrrrrthermore, I've been feeling quite odd myself. In Megyle I felt this near-manic desire for just about every fascinating thing I laid eyes on, and while I haven't noticed anything quite that obvious since returning to Meigantu, I have been experiencing an odd sort of floating friskiness whose focus drifts from person to person and topic to topic with disturbing fluidity. It's like whatever or whoever has my attention is not only the most important thing in the all the worlds, but the ONLY thing anywhere, period. Full stop. And I feel a gnawing need to be a greater part of it and to sort of hug it so hard it becomes a part of me. Is that weird? I feel like that's weird, at least when it comes up so often about so much. Also I'm 75% certain that I didn't always want to kiss everyone and everything I meet quite so much as I do now. I smooched that aforementioned new cyborg species fella like we were dating and it made for a fairly awkward first contact.
    And do you ever get the chillingly certain feeling that you are most definitely being watched at, like, every moment? No? I sure wish I didn't. Welp, I have no idea what my future holds, but as ever I am excited! There's many lifetimes-worth of discoveries to be made down here and innumerable new critters to meet and friends to make, so I am happy. I'm fine. This is fine.       

Love to love you, mean it! Kisses and XOXO and heaps of hugs,
Maya